6th December - 13:31

GitIgnore File failed to track only certain files.

What this means?
Github and Gitignore allowed certain files which would normally be ignored during a push to git. The most notable and problematic of which was a unity libray folder. In which it attempted to push every single file within the folder.
Even having resolved the issue I am unaware if any other files/folders were also attempted to be pushed. This is due to the need to recognise the files from an extraordinaryly long list. (This is resolved as well)

Possible causes: (I resolved each of these assuming they were the problem in order to be sure it wouldn't continue affecting the project)
GitIgnore file was in the wrong folder- Believed it was this since it was in the cloned repository folder rather than within the unity project
Human error made when cloning the repository- Believed it could've been this since it was unlikely to being anything download such as corruption or an incomplete download related. I had pulled a different project not long before this, thus the belief that this was a human error.

The human error refers to the repository being cloned into the wrong place.


How did I resolve it?
To resolve it I first spent some time to figure out how the gitignore file work largely by following whats written on github about it this was found by a simple google. During this process I saw that some people have had this issue in the past and had to rewrite the gitignore file.
Additionally I saw there were a few other solutions which seemed to relate more to my issue and possible causes. These being the possible causes listed above. 
My first step: (this step should have been done later within the resolving process since it ignores a very easy potential fix)
I first recloned the repository into the correct position. This took multiple attempts due to me misreading the where the project was. To do this I made use of github desktop and cloned it thorugh file clone repository. Putting it in the correct location.
This had very little to no affect. 
The second and ultimately the correct fix was to simply move the gitignore file into the unity project folder.
